Discovery documentation update [7926] (#100)
eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs: docs/advanced.rst

kind of traffic from the local participant.

The lease duration is specified as a time expressed in seconds and nanosecond using a ``Duration_t``.

+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp          |
|    :language: c++                                   |
|    :start-after: //CONF-DISCOVERY-LEASE-DURATION    |
|    :end-before: //!--                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml           |
|    :language: xml                                   |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-DISCOVERY-LEASE-DURATION |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _discovery_lease_announ:

Announcement Period
-------------------

It specifies the periodicity of the participant's PDP announcements.

> For liveliness shake it is recommend to be shorter than the lease duration, so that the participant's liveliness is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For liveliness' sake it is recommended that the announcement period is shorter than the lease duration, so that the participant's liveliness is
```

Reviewer 2: ok

- **Simple Endpoint Discovery Protocol (SEDP):** defines the protocol adopted by the discovered participants for the
  exchange of information in order to discover the RTPS entities contained in each of them, i.e. the writer and
  reader Endpoints.

+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                     | Description                                                           |
+==========================+=======================================================================+
| `Initial Announcements`_ | It defines the behavior of the RTPSParticipant initial announcements. |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Simple EDP Attributes`_ | It defines the use of the SIMPLE protocol as a discovery protocol.    |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _`Initial Announcements`:

Initial Announcements
---------------------

`RTPS standard <https://www.omg.org/spec/DDSI-RTPS/2.2/PDF>`_ simple discovery mechanism requires the participant to

> send announcements. These announcements are not deliver in a reliable fashion, and can be disposed of by the network. In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
send announcements. These announcements are not delivered in a reliable fashion, and can be disposed of by the network. In
```

Reviewer 2: ok

order to avoid the discovery delay induced by message disposal, the initial announcement can be set up to make several

> shots, in order to increase proper reception chances.

Reviewer: chances -> changes?

Reviewer 2: It's actually chance in the sense of opportunity of receiving a message.

> Initial announcements only take place on participant creation. Once done, the only announcements enforced are the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initial announcements only take place upon participant creation. Once this phase is over, the only announcements enforced are the
```

Reviewer 2: ok

+---------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp              |
|    :language: c++                                       |
|    :start-after: //CONF_STATIC_DISCOVERY_CODE           |
|    :end-before: //!                                     |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                 |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml               |
|    :language: xml                                       |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF_STATIC_DISCOVERY_CODE        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------+

.. _`static_xml`:

STATIC EDP XML Files Specification
----------------------------------

Since activating STATIC EDP suppresses all EDP meta traffic, the information about the remote entities (publishers and
subscribers) must be statically specified, which is done using dedicated XML files.
A participant may load several of such configuration files so that the information about different endpoints can be

> contained in one file, or split in different files to keep it more organized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contained in one file, or split into different files to keep it more organized.
```

Reviewer 2: ok

Discovery
*********

Fast-RTPS, as a DDS implementation, provides discovery mechanisms that allow for automatically finding and matching
publishers and subscribers across participants so they can start sharing data.

> This discovery is performed, for all the mechanisms, in two phases.

Reviewer 3: I don't feel the same. For me it is introducing the next section

   addresses (IP and port) where the participant is listening for incoming meta and user data traffic.
   Two given participants will match when they exist in the same domain.
   By default, the announcement messages are sent using well-known multicast addresses and ports (calculated using the
   domain).
   Furthermore, it is possible to specify a list of addresses to send
   announcements using unicast (see in :ref:`initial-peers`).
   Moreover, is is also possible to configure the periodicity of such announcements (see
   :ref:`Discovery Configuration <dconf>`).

#. **Endpoint Discovery Phase (EDP)**: During this phase, the publishers and subscribers acknowledge each other.
   To do that, the participants share information about their publishers and subscribers with each other, using the
   communication channels established during the PDP.
   This information contains, among other things, the topic and data type.
   For two endpoints to match, their topic and data type must coincide.
   Once publisher and subscriber have matched, they are ready for sending/receiving user data traffic.

.. _disc_mechanisms:

Discovery mechanisms
====================

> Fast-RTPS provides the following discovery mechanisms:

Reviewer 3: I agree with this

> Fast-RTPS provides the following discovery mechanisms:

Reviewer 2: done

|                     +---------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     | ``CLIENT``          | The participant acts as a client for discovery traffic.                 |
|                     |                     | It send its discovery information to the server, and receives all other |
|                     |                     | discovery information from the server.                                  |
|                     +---------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     | ``BACKUP``          | Creates a SERVER participant which has a persistent ``sqlite`` database.|
|                     |                     | A BACKUP server can load the a database on start.                       |
|                     |                     | This type of sever makes the Server-Client architecture resilient to    |
|                     |                     | server destruction.                                                     |
+---------------------+---------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | Manual              | ``NONE``            | Disables PDP phase, therefore the is no EDP phase                       |

Reviewer 3: This should still be applied.

|                     |                     | ``addReaderProxy``, ``addWriterProxy`` methods.                         |
+---------------------+---------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp          |
|    :language: c++                                   |
|    :start-after: //CONF-DISCOVERY-PROTOCOL          |
|    :end-before: //!--                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml           |
|    :language: xml                                   |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-DISCOVERY-PROTOCOL       |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _discovery_ignore_flags:

Ignore Participant flags
------------------------

> Defines a filter so some discovery traffic is ignored when received.

Reviewer 3: This should still be applied.

|    :end-before: //!--                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml           |
|    :language: xml                                   |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-DISCOVERY-IGNORE-FLAGS   |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _discovery_lease_dur:

Lease Duration
--------------

Indicates for how much time should a remote participant consider the local participant to be alive.
If the liveliness of the local participant has not being asserted within this time, the remote participant considers the
local participant dead and destroys all the information regarding the local participant and all its endpoints.

The local participant's liveliness is asserted on the remote participant any time the remote participant receives any
kind of traffic from the local participant.

The lease duration is specified as a time expressed in seconds and nanosecond using a ``Duration_t``.

> Its default value is 20 seconds.

Reviewer 3: I agree with this.

> Its default value is 20 seconds.

Reviewer 2: done

|    :end-before: //!--                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml           |
|    :language: xml                                   |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-DISCOVERY-LEASE-DURATION |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _discovery_lease_announ:

Announcement Period
-------------------

It specifies the periodicity of the participant's PDP announcements.
For liveliness shake it is recommend to be shorter than the lease duration, so that the participant's liveliness is
asserted even when there is no data traffic.
It is important to note that there is a trade-off involved in the setting of the announcement period, i.e. too frequent
announcements will bloat the network with meta traffic, but too scarce ones will delay the discovery of late joiners.

Participant's announcement period is specified as a time expressed in seconds and nanosecond using a ``Duration_t``.

> Its default value is 3 seconds.

Reviewer 3: I agree

- **Simple Participant Discovery Protocol (SPDP):** specifies how Participants discover each other in the network; it
  announces and detects the presence of participants in a domain.

- **Simple Endpoint Discovery Protocol (SEDP):** defines the protocol adopted by the discovered participants for the
  exchange of information in order to discover the RTPS entities contained in each of them, i.e. the writers and
  readers Endpoints.

+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                     | Description                                                           |
+==========================+=======================================================================+
| `Initial Announcements`_ | It defines the behavior of the RTPSParticipant initial announcements. |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Simple EDP Attributes`_ | It defines the use of the SIMPLE protocol as a discovery protocol.    |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _`Initial Announcements`:

> Initial Announcements

Reviewer 3: True enough

> Initial Announcements

Reviewer 2: How about:

> [RTPS standard](https://www.omg.org/spec/DDSI-RTPS/2.2/PDF) simple discovery mechanism requires the participant to send constant announcements. This announcements are not deliver in a reliable fashion and can be dispose of by the network. In order to avoid the discovery delay induced by message disposal, the initial announcement can be set up to make several shots to increase proper reception chances.

> Initial Announcements

Reviewer 3: Ok, but corrected:
> [RTPS standard](https://www.omg.org/spec/DDSI-RTPS/2.2/PDF) simple discovery mechanism requires the participant to periodically send announcements.
These announcements are not delivered in a reliable fashion, and can be disposed of by the network.
In order to avoid the discovery delay induced by message disposal, the initial announcement can be set up to make several shots, in order to increase proper reception chances.

> Initial Announcements

Reviewer 3: And I would also add a sentence explaining that, after all the initial announcements have been sent, the announcement period is used.

> Initial Announcements

Reviewer 2: done

|    :end-before: //!--                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml           |
|    :language: xml                                   |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-DISCOVERY-IGNORE-FLAGS   |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. _discovery_lease_dur:

Lease Duration
--------------

Indicates for how much time should a remote participant consider the local participant to be alive.
If the liveliness of the local participant has not being asserted within this time, the remote participant considers the
local participant dead and destroys all the information regarding the local participant and all its endpoints.

The local participant's liveliness is asserted on the remote participant any time the remote participant receives any
kind of traffic from the local participant.

The lease duration is specified as a time expressed in seconds and nanosecond using a ``Duration_t``.

> Its default value is 20 seconds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The lease duration is specified as a time expressed in seconds and nanosecond using a ``Duration_t``.
```

    :ref:`Discovery protocol <DS_discovery_protocol>`, how to make a participant a *client* or a *server*.
    :ref:`Server unique id <DS_guidPrefx>`, how to link a *clients* to *servers*.
    :ref:`Seting up transport <DS_locators>`, how to specify which transport to use and make *servers* reachable.
    :ref:`Pinging period <DS_ping_period>`, how to fine tune server-client handshake.
    :ref:`Matching period <DS_match_period>`, how to fine tune server deliver efficiency.

.. _DS_discovery_protocol:

Choosing between client and server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is set by the :ref:`Discovery Protocol <discovery_protocol>` general attribute.
A participant can only play a role (despite the fact that a *server* may act as a *client* of other server).
It is mandatory to fill this value because it defaults to *simple*.
The values associated with the Server-client discovery are specified in :ref:`discovery settings
section <DS_DiscoverySettings>`.
In the examples bellow is shown how to manage the corresponding enum attribute:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.discovery_config.discoveryProtocol

and xml tag:

.. code-block:: bash

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryProtocol

Reviewer 2: how about this one? It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryProtocol

Reviewer 3: 🤔 Ok. Leave the hints, but change the sentence to 
> The examples below show how to ...

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryProtocol

Reviewer 2: Initial announcements only take place on participant creation. Once done, the only announcements enforced are the standard ones based on the `leaseDuration_announcementperiod` period (not the `initial_announcements.period`).

|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_DISCOVERY_PROTOCOL          |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-DISCOVERY-PROTOCOL<-->   |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_guidPrefx:

The server unique identifier ``GuidPrefix``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This belongs to the RTPS specification and univocally identifies each DDS participant. It consist on 12 bytes and is
basically a key in the DDS domain.
In the server-client discovery has the purpose to link a *server* to its *clients*.
Note that there is an auxiliary **ReadguidPrefix** method to populate the ``GuidPrefix`` using a ``string``.

> It must be mandatorily specified in:

Reviewer 4: in where? I understand it is mandatory in the sever setup (defining its own prefix) and in the client setup (defining the list of known servers). But the sentence feels unfinished and can be very confusing to new users. Either complete it to provide the complete requirement on the sentence or remove it altogether and possibly move the requirement to the server and client sections.

Reviewer 3: Please address this comment.

Reviewer 2: ok, direct reference.

Server side setup
"""""""""""""""""

In the examples below we show how to setup the attribute:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.prefix

and xml tag:

.. code-block:: bash

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>prefix

Reviewer 4: Remove the enum and tag hierarchy (it is implicit in the examples).

Reviewer 2: As above... It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

Reviewer 3: Same changes as above

|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_SERVER_GUIDPREFIX           |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-SERVER-PREFIX<-->        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

Note that a *server* can act as a *client* of other *servers*.
Thus, the following section may also apply.

Client side setup
""""""""""""""""""

Each *client* must keep a list of the *servers* it wants to link to.
Each single element represents an individual server and a ``GuidPrefix`` must be provided.
The *server* list is the attribute:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.discovery_config.m_DiscoveryServers

and must be populated with ``RemoteServerAttributes`` objects with a valid ``guidPrefix`` member.

> In xml the server list is and its elements are simultaneously specified.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In xml the server list and its elements are simultaneously specified.
```

Reviewer 2: right

Note that ``prefix`` is an attribute of the ``RemoteServer`` tag.

.. code-block:: bash

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryServerList>RemoteServer@prefix

Reviewer 4: Get rid of the enum and tag hierarchy, as they are implicit on the examples.

Reviewer 2: As above... It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

Reviewer 3: 👍

+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp                 |
|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_CLIENT_GUIDPREFIX           |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-CLIENT-PREFIX<-->        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_locators:

The server locator list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Each *server* must specify how to be reach by specifying valid locators.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each *server* must specify valid locators where it can be reached.
```

Reviewer 2: right

Any *client* must be given proper locators to reach each of its *servers*.
As in the :ref:`above section <DS_guidPrefx>` here there is a *server* and a *client* side setup.

Server side setup
"""""""""""""""""

In the examples below its shown how to setup the locator list attribute (note that discovery strategy only deals with
metatraffic attributes):

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.(metatrafficMulticastLocatorList|metatrafficUnicastLocatorList)

and xml tag:

.. code-block:: bash

    dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>(metatrafficMulticastLocatorList|metatrafficUnicastLocatorList)

> 

Reviewer 4: Get rid of the enum and tag hierarchy, as they are implicit on the examples.

Reviewer 2: As above... It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

Reviewer 3: Same changes as above

|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-SERVER-LOCATORS<-->      |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

Note that a *server* can act as a client of other *servers*, thus, the following section may also apply.

Client side setup
""""""""""""""""""

Each *client* must keep a list of locators associated to the *servers* it wants to link to.
Each *server* specifies its own locators.
The locator list is the attribute:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.discovery_config.m_DiscoveryServers

and must be populated with ``RemoteServerAttributes`` objects with a valid ``metatrafficUnicastLocatorList`` or
``metatrafficMulticastLocatorList`` member. In xml the server list is and its elements are simultaneously specified.
Note the ``metatrafficUnicastLocatorList`` or ``metatrafficMulticastLocatorList`` attributes of the ``RemoteServer``
tag.

.. code-block:: bash

    dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryServerList>RemoteServer@metatrafficUnicastLocatorList

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryServerList>RemoteServer@metatrafficMulticastLocatorList

Reviewer 4: Get rid of the enum and tag hierarchy, as they are implicit on the examples.

Reviewer 2: As above... It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

Reviewer 3: 👍

+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp                 |
|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_CLIENT_LOCATORS             |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-CLIENT-LOCATORS<-->      |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_ping_period:

Client ping period
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As explained :ref:`above <DS_key_concepts>` the *clients* send hailing messages to the *servers* at regular intervals

> (ping period) until they received message reception acknowledgement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
(ping period) until they receive message reception acknowledgement.
```

Reviewer 2: right

This period is specified in the member:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.discovery_config.discoveryServer_client_syncperiod

or the xml tag:

.. code-block:: bash

>     dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>clientAnnouncementPeriod

Reviewer 4: Get rid of the enum and tag hierarchy, as they are implicit on the examples.

Reviewer 2: As above... It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

Reviewer 3: 👍

Reviewer 3: Is the xml tag correct? It does not match with the attribute

Reviewer 2: Yes, I wasn't careful enough to change it when the parsing was implemented.

| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-CLIENT-PING<-->          |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_match_period:

Server match period
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As explained :ref:`above <DS_key_concepts>` the *Servers* received the hailing messages but they don't start at once to
share publishers or subscribers info with the newcomers.
They only trigger this process at regular intervals (match period).
Note that this member is shared with the *client* setup but its name references solely the *client* functionality.
This period is specified in the member:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.discovery_config.discoveryServer_client_syncperiod

or the xml tag:

.. code-block:: bash

    dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>clientAnnouncementPeriod

> 

Reviewer 4: Get rid of the enum and tag hierarchy, as they are implicit on the examples.

Reviewer 2: As above... It's not easy to imply the jigsaw puzzle that the attributes are, directly, from the examples...that's the main reason I put these clues there.

Reviewer 3: Is the xml tag correct? It does not match with the attribute

Reviewer 2: Yes, I'm afraid I wasn't careful enough when implementing the parsing. I didn't realize there would be two mechanism linked with this period: for clients the **ping** and for servers the **match**.

|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-SERVER-PING<-->          |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_setup_attributes:

Server-client setup by attribute
--------------------------------

The settings related with server-client discovery are:

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Name", "Description"
    :widths: 20,100

    :ref:`RTPSParticipantAttributes <DS_RTPSParticipantAttributes>`, "Specifies general participant settings.
    Some of them must be modified in order to properly configure a Server like the ``GuidPrefix``."
    :ref:`BuiltinAttributes <DS_BuiltinAttributes>`, "It's a member of the above *RTPSParticipantAttributes* structure.
    Allows to specify some mandatory server discovery settings like the :raw-html:`<br />` addresses were it listens for
    clients discovery info."
    :ref:`DiscoverySettings <DS_DiscoverySettings>`, "It's a member of the above *BuiltinAttributes* structure.
    Allows to specify some mandatory client an optional server settings like the: :raw-html:`<br />` if it's a client or

>     a server or the list of servers it is linked to or the client-ping, server-match frequencies."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Allows to specify some mandatory client an optional server settings like: :raw-html:`<br />` whether it is a client or
    a server; or the list of servers it is linked to; or the client-ping, server-match frequencies."
```

Reviewer 2: right

> .. _DS_RTPSParticipantAttributes:

Reviewer 4: From here on, there is no new information, all was covered before. Instead of repeating the info it would be more maintainable to keep the settings attribute above and just add the links where each attribute/setting is explained in detail. This avoids duplicating the documentation (which may cause coherence issues in the future should the functionality change) while providing a table with a summary of applicable attributes for fast reference and links to the corresponding explanations at the same time.

Reviewer 2: but this goes against Jaime's main directive: this docs section must be crystal clear. If we provide only conceptual or attribute centered documentations somebody will complain. In fact, at the beginning we have only an attribute centered one and nobody was happy about it.

       :raw-html:`<br />`
       When a *server* discovers new *clients* it only starts exchanging info with them at regular
       :raw-html:`<br />`
       intervals as a mechanism to bundle discovery info and optimize delivery.
       :raw-html:`<br />`
       The default value is half a second.

+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp                 |
|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_PING                        |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-PING                     |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |

> +------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 4: End of duplicate documentation

Reviewer 2: same as above

|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_SERVER_GUIDPREFIX           |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-SERVER-PREFIX<-->        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

Note that a *server* can act as a *client* of other *servers*. Thus, the following section may also apply.

Client side setup
""""""""""""""""""

Each *client* must keep a list of the *servers* it wants to link to. Each single element represents an individual server
and a ``GuidPrefix`` must be provided. The *server* list is the attribute:

.. code-block:: bash

    ParticipantAttributes.rtps.builtin.discovery_config.m_DiscoveryServers

and must be populated with ``RemoteServerAttributes`` objects with a valid ``guidPrefix`` member. In xml the server list

> is and its elements are simultaneously specified. Note that ``prefix`` is an attribute of the ``RemoteServer`` tag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and its elements are simultaneously specified. Note that ``prefix`` is an attribute of the ``RemoteServer`` tag.
```

  The special value :class:`INF` can be used to indicate infinite lease duration.
  If not specified, default value is :class:`INF`

.. _static_xml_example:

STATIC EDP XML Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following is a complete example of a configuration XML file for two remote participants, a publisher and a
subscriber.
This configuration **must** agree with the configuration used to create the remote endpoint.
Otherwise, communication between endpoints may be affected.
If any non-mandatory element is missing, it will take the default value.
As a rule of thumb, all the elements that were specified on the remote endpoint creation should be configured.

+-------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                         |
+-------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/StaticTester.xml    |
|    :language: xml                               |
|    :start-after: <!-->STATIC_DISCOVERY_CONF<--> |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                       |
+-------------------------------------------------+

.. _`static_xml_load`:

Loading STATIC EDP XML Files
----------------------------

> Statically discovered remote endpoints **must** define a unique *userID* on their profile, which value **must** agree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Statically discovered remote endpoints **must** define a unique *userID* on their profile, whose value **must** agree
```

Reviewer 2: ok

> with the one specified on the discovery configuration XML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the one specified in the discovery configuration XML.
```

Reviewer 2: ok

+---------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                 |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp              |
|    :language: c++                                       |
|    :start-after: //CONF_STATIC_DISCOVERY_XML            |
|    :end-before: //!                                     |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                 |
+---------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml               |
|    :language: xml                                       |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF_STATIC_DISCOVERY_XML         |
|    :end-before: <!-->                                   |
+---------------------------------------------------------+

.. role:: raw-html(raw)
    :format: html

.. _discovery_server:

Server-Client Discovery
=======================

This mechanism is based on a client-server discovery paradigm, i.e. the metatraffic (message exchange among participants

> to identify each other) is centralized in one or several server participants (left figure), as opposed to simple

Reviewer: in one or several participants -> maybe I would use 'through' in spite of 'in'?

Reviewer 2: After thinking a while about this I've decided that rephrasing is the path to go:

> The metatraffic is managed by one or several server participants…

because say centralized when there may be many *centers* doesn't make much sense.

discovery (right figure), where metatraffic is exchanged using a message broadcast mechanism like an IP multicast
protocol.

.. image:: ds_uml.png
    :align: center
    :width: 50%

.. _DS_key_concepts:

Key concepts
------------

In this architecture there are several key concepts to understand:

- The Server-client discovery mechanism reuses the RTPS discovery messages structure, as well as the standard RTPS
  writers and readers.

> - Discovery server participants may be *clients* or *servers*. The only difference between them is on how the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discovery server participants may be *clients* or *servers*. The only difference between them is how they
```

Reviewer 2: ok

>   meta-traffic is handled. The user traffic, that is, the traffic among the publishers and subscribers they create is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 handle meta-traffic. The user traffic, that is, the traffic among the publishers and subscribers they create is
```

Reviewer 2: ok

  role-independent.

> - All *server* discovery info will be shared with their linked *clients* and likewise the own *clients* discovery info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All *server* discovery info will be shared with their linked *clients* and likewise the *clients* discovery info
```

Reviewer 2: mmm, here *own* is used to emphasize that is each *client* info as participant. I think we lose clarity by removing it.

Author: I have a different suggestion
```suggestion
- All *server* and *client* discovery info will be shared with linked *clients*.
```

  identity (henceforth called ``GuidPrefix``) and a list of locators where the *server* is listening. This locators
  define also the transport protocol (UDP or TCP) the client will use to contact the *server*.

    - The ``GuidPrefix`` is the RTPS standard participant unique identifier,  a 12-byte chain. This identifier
      allows clients to assess whether they are receiving messages from the right server, as each standard RTPS
      message contains this piece of information.

    - The ``GuidPrefix`` is used because the server's IP address may not be a reliable enough server identifier,
      since several servers can be hosted in the same machine, thus having the same IP, and also because multicast
      addresses are acceptable addresses.

- *Servers* do not require any beforehand knowledge of their *clients*, but their ``GuidPrefix`` and locator list (where
  they are listening) must match the one provided to the *clients*.

  In order to gather *client* discovery info the following handshake strategy is followed:

     - *Clients* send hailing messages to the *servers* at regular intervals (ping period) until they receive message
       reception acknowledgement.

>      - *Servers* received the hailing messages but they don't start at once to share publishers or subscribers info with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - *Servers* receive the hailing messages but they don't start at once to share publishers or subscribers info with
```

Reviewer 2: ok

       the newcomers. They only trigger this process at regular intervals (match period). Tuning this period is possible
       to bundle the discovery info and deliver it more efficiently.

In order to clarify this discovery setup either on compile time (sources) or runtime (XML files) we are going to split

> it in two sections: one focus on the main concepts (:ref:`setup by concept <DS_setup_concepts>`) and other into the main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it into two sections: one focusing on the main concepts (:ref:`setup by concept <DS_setup_concepts>`) and the other on the main
```

Reviewer 2: ok

attribute structures and XML tags (:ref:`setup by attribute<DS_setup_attributes>`).

.. _DS_setup_concepts:

Server-client setup by concept
------------------------------

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Concept", "Description"

    :ref:`Discovery protocol <DS_discovery_protocol>`, how to make a participant a *client* or a *server*.
    :ref:`Server unique id <DS_guidPrefx>`, how to link a *clients* to *servers*.
    :ref:`Seting up transport <DS_locators>`, how to specify which transport to use and make *servers* reachable.
    :ref:`Pinging period <DS_ping_period>`, how to fine tune server-client handshake.
    :ref:`Matching period <DS_match_period>`, how to fine tune server deliver efficiency.

.. _DS_discovery_protocol:

Choosing between client and server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It's set by the :ref:`Discovery Protocol <discovery_protocol>` general attribute. A participant can only play a role
(despite the fact that a *server* may act as a *client* of other server). It's mandatory to fill this value because it
defaults to *simple*.  The values associated with the Server-client discovery are specified in :ref:`discovery settings

> section <DS_DiscoverySettings>`. The examples below shown how to manage the corresponding enum attribute and XML tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
section <DS_DiscoverySettings>`. The examples below show how to manage the corresponding enum attribute and XML tag:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    dds>profiles>participant>rtps>builtin>discovery_config>discoveryProtocol

+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp                 |
|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_DISCOVERY_PROTOCOL          |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-DISCOVERY-PROTOCOL<-->   |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_guidPrefx:

The server unique identifier ``GuidPrefix``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This belongs to the RTPS specification and univocally identifies each DDS participant. It consist on 12 bytes and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This belongs to the RTPS specification and univocally identifies each DDS participant. It consists of 12 bytes and is
```

Reviewer 2: ok

> basically a key in the DDS domain. In the server-client discovery it has the purpose to link a *server* to its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a key in the DDS domain. In the server-client discovery, it has the purpose to link a *server* to its
```

Reviewer 2: ok

*clients*.  Note that there is an auxiliary **ReadguidPrefix** method to populate the ``GuidPrefix`` using a ``string``.
It must be mandatorily specified in: *server side* and *client side* setups.

Server side setup
"""""""""""""""""

> The examples below shown how to manage the corresponding enum attribute and XML tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples below show how to manage the corresponding enum attribute and XML tag:
```

Reviewer 2: ok

+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp                 |
|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_CLIENT_GUIDPREFIX           |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-CLIENT-PREFIX<-->        |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_locators:

The server locator list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each *server* must specify valid locators where it can be reached. Any *client* must be given proper locators to

> reach each of its *servers*. As in the :ref:`above section <DS_guidPrefx>` here there is a *server* and a *client* side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reach each of its *servers*. As in the :ref:`above section <DS_guidPrefx>`, here there is a *server* and a *client* side
```

Reviewer 2: ok

setup.

Server side setup
"""""""""""""""""

> The examples below shown how to setup the locator list attribute (note that discovery strategy only deals with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples below show how to setup the locator list attribute (note that the discovery strategy only deals with
```

Reviewer 2: ok

+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **C++**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/CodeTester.cpp                 |
|    :language: c++                                          |
|    :start-after: //CONF_SERVER_CLIENT_LOCATORS             |
|    :end-before: //!--                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| **XML**                                                    |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. literalinclude:: ../code/XMLTester.xml                  |
|    :language: xml                                          |
|    :start-after: <!-->CONF-SERVER-CLIENT-LOCATORS<-->      |
|    :end-before: <!--><-->                                  |
+------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _DS_ping_period:

Client ping period
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As explained :ref:`above <DS_key_concepts>` the *clients* send hailing messages to the *servers* at regular

> intervals (ping period) until they received message reception acknowledgement. This period is specified in the member:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intervals (ping period) until they receive message reception acknowledgements. This period is specified in the member:
```

Reviewer 2: ok
